The paper will examine public and privatized healthcare systems and identify differences in how these systems affect healthcare access. The effectiveness of these systems will be evaluated on the outcomes yielded from different levels of resulting healthcare access such as longevity and management of chronic disease. The US has infamously (insufficient?) private healthcare coverage. ( how to tie in the “factors like in other countries that may affect healthcare access in the US”). The paper will examine arguments both for and against a universal healthcare system for the US and conclude with a recommendation as to an appropriate course of action for US healthcare reformation. 
The paper will examine public and privatized healthcare systems and identify differences in how these systems affect healthcare access. The effectiveness of these systems will be evaluated on the health outcomes such as longevity and management of chronic disease. Specifically, health outcomes in the US’s private healthcare system will be compared to . ( how to tie in the “factors like in other countries that may affect healthcare access in the US”). The paper will examine arguments both for and against a universal healthcare system for the US and conclude with a recommendation as to an appropriate course of action for US healthcare reformation. 
The paper will examine public and privatized healthcare systems and identify differences in how these systems affect healthcare access. Access will be evaluated as a function of health outcomes such as longevity and management of chronic disease. Specifically, health systems in the US, UK, Australia, Indonesia, and Taiwan will be considered, and national economic development as a factor also affecting health care access will be discussed. The paper will examine arguments both for and against a universal healthcare system for the US and conclude with a recommendation as to an appropriate course of action for US healthcare reform. 
Abstract: Healthcare is expensive. How such a costly basic necessity is distributed has been the subject of global policy debate for decades, and two general approaches have emerged. The first is public healthcare coverage wherein services such as general and specialist physician office visits, lab testing and medical imaging as well as the provision of prescription medications and supplies are funded and administered by the national government and individual people pay little or nothing out-of-pocket for health services. The second is private healthcare coverage, wherein private companies–either through private insurance providers or directly–offer health services, medications, and supplies to individual consumers at varying levels of individual cost. US healthcare is almost entirely privately insured. Research indicates that life expectancy and chronic disease management outcomes are similar across class and income groups in countries with nationalized healthcare, but in countries where private insurance primarily funds care, poorer populations have shorter lifespans and greater morbidity due to cardiovascular disease and diabetes. In countries which institute national healthcare models instead of or in addition to private health insurance, lower socioeconomic groups benefit the most, with longevity and chronic disease management outcomes rising significantly. 
