In his article, “The Problem with Counterfeit People,” Dennett asserts that artificial intelligence (AI) is an immenant threat to human life. The initial purpose of AI was to increase human productivity by providing efficient and immediate access to accurate information. However, AI has evolved beyond its initial enhancement of human mental facilities to become uncannily skilled at immitating all aspects of the human being– from thought, to composition, to mannerisms. Dennett warns that human minds could be “sitting ducks” to such advanced AI capabilities that, with their resemblance to actual humans, could coax out the vulnerabilities of soceity’s most powerful figures and exploit humankind with their findings. Most horrific to Dennett is the ability of the “coutnerfeit people” created by AI to reproduce themselves in a Darwin-like manner to overcome the authenticity verification measures formulated by real humans to determine whether or not they have been deceived. Dennett concludes his pieve by suggesting a legal framework for companies and executives that encourage and implore the unregulated use of AI as a means to remind the public of the “moral obligations” necessary to  further safe technological progress. 
In his article, “The Problem with Counterfeit People,” Dennett asserts that artificial intelligence (AI) is an imminent threat to human life. The initial purpose of AI was to increase human productivity by providing efficient and immediate access to accurate information. However, AI has evolved beyond its initial enhancement of human mental facilities to become uncannily skilled at imitating all aspects of the human being– from thought, to composition, to mannerisms. Dennett warns that human minds could be “sitting ducks” to such advanced AI capabilities that, with their resemblance to actual humans, could coax out the vulnerabilities of society's most powerful figures and exploit humankind with their findings. Most horrific to Dennett is the ability of the “counterfeit people” created by AI to reproduce themselves in a Darwin-like manner to overcome the authenticity verification measures formulated by real humans to determine whether or not they have been deceived. Dennett concludes his piece by suggesting a legal framework for companies and executives that encourage and implore the unregulated use of AI as a means to remind the public of the “moral obligations” necessary to  further safe technological progress. 
In his article, “The Problem with Counterfeit People,” Dennett asserts that artificial intelligence (AI) is an imminent threat to human life. The initial purpose of AI was to increase human productivity by providing efficient and immediate access to accurate information. However, AI has evolved beyond its initial enhancement of human mental facilities to become uncannily skilled at imitating all aspects of the human being– from thought, to composition, to mannerisms. Dennett warns that human minds could be “sitting ducks” to such advanced AI capabilities that, with their resemblance to actual humans, could coax out the vulnerabilities of society's most powerful figures and exploit humankind with their findings. Most horrific to Dennett is the ability of the “counterfeit people” created by AI to reproduce themselves in a Darwin-like manner to overcome the authenticity verification measures formulated by real humans to determine whether or not they have been deceived. Dennett concludes his piece by suggesting a legal framework for companies and executives that encourage and implore the unregulated use of AI as a means to remind the public of the “moral obligations” necessary to  further safe technological progress. I share Dennetts conviction regarding the regulation of AI use. There must be a legal framework for the integration of AI into the ecosystem of human interaction. It is necessary to maintain the separation of the purpose of the human mind from its technological emulation.
In his article, “The Problem with Counterfeit People,” Dennett asserts that artificial intelligence (AI) is an imminent threat to human life. The initial purpose of AI was to increase human productivity by providing efficient and immediate access to accurate information. However, AI has evolved beyond its initial enhancement of human mental facilities to become uncannily skilled at mimicking various aspects of human behavior– from thought, to composition, to mannerisms. Dennett warns that human minds could be “sitting ducks” to such advanced AI capabilities that, with their resemblance to actual humans, could coax out the vulnerabilities of society's most powerful figures and exploit humankind with their findings. Most troubling to Dennett is the ability of the “counterfeit people” created by AI to reproduce itself in a Darwin-like manner to bypass the authenticity verifications formulated by real humans to distinguish between humans and AI mimicry. Dennett concludes his piece by suggesting a legal framework for companies and executives that encourage and implore the unregulated use of AI as a means to remind the public of the “moral obligations'' necessary to  further safe technological progress. I share Dennetts conviction regarding the regulation of AI use. There must be a legal framework for the integration of AI into the ecosystem of human interaction. It is necessary to maintain the separation of the purpose of the human mind from its technological emulation.
