Healthcare is expensive. It is also, in many countries, a human right. How such a costly basic necessity is distributed has been the subject of global policy debate for centuries– and two general approaches have emerged. The first is public healthcare coverage; health services such as physician consultations and lab imaging and health supplies such as prescription drugs are government provisions and individual people pay nothing (or very little) to use health services. The second is private healthcare coverage; private companies offer health serivces and health supplies for varying levels of cost to individual people. US healthcare is almost entirely private coverage. However, there has been much discussion among both government and medical officials as to whether or not this system should change. 
Healthcare is expensive. It is also, in many countries, a human right. How such a costly basic necessity is distributed has been the subject of global policy debate for decades, and two general approaches have emerged. The first is public healthcare coverage wherein services such as general and specialist physician office visits, lab testing and medical imaging as well as the  provision of prescription medications and supplies are funded and administered by the national government and individual people pay little or nothing out-of-pocket for health services. The second is private healthcare coverage, wherein private companies–either through private insurance providers or directly–offer health serivces, medications, and supplies  to individual consumers at varying levels of individual cost. US healthcare is almost entirely private coverage. However, there has been much discussion among both government, public health, and medical officials as to whether or not this system should change. 
Healthcare is expensive. It is also, in many countries, a human right. How such a costly basic necessity is distributed has been the subject of global policy debate for decades, and two general approaches have emerged. The first is public healthcare coverage wherein services such as general and specialist physician office visits, lab testing and medical imaging as well as the provision of prescription medications and supplies are funded and administered by the national government and individual people pay little or nothing out-of-pocket for health services. The second is private healthcare coverage, wherein private companies–either through private insurance providers or directly–offer health services, medications, and supplies to individual consumers at varying levels of individual cost. US healthcare is almost entirely privately covered.
The provision of healthcare is driven by motives which are both competing and synergistic. On the medical side, equitable access to healthcare is important because it recognizes the dignity and value of each person regardless of class. Physicians and other healthcare professionals focus on their patients’ health outcomes to measure the success of their work, but those who do not or cannot access care often have higher mortality rates and less access to care for chronic medical conditions such as cardiovascular disease or diabetes. On the economic side, politicians often focus exclusively on how much healthcare costs. Healthcare expenditures account for more than $12,000 per person annually or 18.3% of GDP. While these figures can be seen generally an expression of the value the nation puts on individual dignity, it flies in the face of the value each person puts on another’s dignity. In other words, private insurance is a measure of our value of self, and decidedly not a measure of how much we are willing to support someone else’s dignity in the form of nationalized healthcare. Americans are loathe to pay taxes to support healthcare for “the poor” through a single payer system. 
Healthcare is expensive. It is also, in many countries, a human right. How such a costly basic necessity is distributed has been the subject of global policy debate for decades, and two general approaches have emerged. The first is public healthcare coverage wherein services such as general and specialist physician office visits, lab testing and medical imaging as well as the provision of prescription medications and supplies are funded and administered by the national government and individual people pay little or nothing out-of-pocket for health services. The second is private healthcare coverage, wherein private companies–either through private insurance providers or directly–offer health services, medications, and supplies to individual consumers at varying levels of individual cost. US healthcare is almost entirely privately covered.
The provision of healthcare is driven by motives which are both competing and synergistic. On the medical side, equitable access to healthcare is important because it recognizes the dignity and value of each person regardless of class. Physicians and other healthcare professionals focus on their patients’ health outcomes to measure the success of their work, but those who do not or cannot access care often have higher mortality rates and less access to care for chronic medical conditions such as cardiovascular disease or diabetes. On the economic side, politicians often focus exclusively on how much of the national budget goes to healthcare and not at all on the benefit to the individual. Healthcare expenditures account for more than $12,000 per person annually or 18.3% of GDP. While these figures can be seen generally an expression of the value the nation puts on collective dignity, they are inapposite to the value each person puts on another’s dignity. In other words, private insurance is a measure of our value of self, and decidedly not a measure of how much we are willing to support another’s dignity in the form of nationalized healthcare. Americans are loathe to pay taxes to support healthcare for “the poor” through a single payer system.
Ironically, Americans already subsidize healthcare for others in at least two ways. First, most people in the US receive healthcare under private insurance through their employers by way of payroll deductions and employer subsidies. Insurance premiums are set based on a byzantine calculation by providers which factors in among other things the cost of hospital write-offs. Second, most elderly and disabled people are covered by Medicare and Medicaid, mini-single payer programs funded by payroll taxes. Even with both private and public insurance systems, however, an estimated 45 million Americans were not covered by insurance of any kind prior to the passage of the Affordable Care Act in 2010. Most uninsured people were uninsured because their employers did not provide insurance and they could not afford the premiums on their own.
